# WIFI Scanning Research and Development 

*The Problem:*
- The gathering and transformation of wireless data into an effective mapping. 

*The Solution:*
- With use of several open-source projects developed in python, and the implementation of an onboard RPi, the team will be able to effectively create WIFI strength mappings. 

## How do we plan to execute the scanning?
- With the use of the project found [here](https://github.com/jantman/python-wifi-survey-heatmap) and Python binaries such as iperf3, libiw, and a Docker container the team should be able to gather information in 10 second increments, over various services (TCP and UDP). Recording of the wireless details include information about channel bandwidth, bitrate and signal strength. 
- The scan will be done on board the Create 3 iRobot utilizing code written in Python. The Python code will collect the information and compile the information into a usable manner to be sent to the mobile app when the Heatmap can be generated.

## How are heatmaps of the scan created?
- By using the same project as previously mentioned and some addition resources created and found on GitHub, the team will be able to upload a floor plan of the room being scanned. (Ideally this will be generated by the robot itself. Planning for this is still under consideration.) After this file has been uploaded, the scan can commence and the robot will move about the room while the heatmapping program runs concurrently on the on-board RPi. 

## Conclusions
- The end solution for this project will include wireless information retrieval from the Create 3 platform. With control of the device being had from the iOS app in development, and a thorough solution provided for the end-user. 
